README.md, before:

# FirebaseHostingClientIp

A Rails middleware gem that normalizes client IP addresses when your Rails application is deployed behind Firebase Hosting.

## Problem

When a Rails application is deployed behind Firebase Hosting, the original client IP address is obscured by proxy layers. Rails' default `ActionDispatch::RemoteIp` middleware may not correctly identify the true client IP due to the specific header precedence used by Firebase Hosting's infrastructure.

This gem provides a middleware that implements a heuristic precedence order specifically designed for Firebase Hosting's proxy chain, ensuring `request.remote_ip` returns the correct client IP address.

## Supported Architecture

This gem is designed for the following architecture:

```
Client → Firebase Hosting → Rails Application
```

Firebase Hosting uses Fastly CDN behind the scenes (this is not a documented feature and is not configurable - all Firebase Hosting users get Fastly CDN automatically). The middleware handles the `HTTP_FASTLY_CLIENT_IP` header that Fastly provides, as well as the `HTTP_X_FORWARDED_FOR` header from the proxy chain.

## Intended Use Cases

This middleware is useful for:

- **Logging**: Accurately log client IP addresses for audit trails and debugging
- **Analytics**: Track user locations and behavior based on correct IP geolocation
- **User Experience**: Personalize content based on user location
- **Security**: Implement IP-based rate limiting or access controls

## Security Disclaimer

**IMPORTANT**: This middleware trusts HTTP headers (`HTTP_FASTLY_CLIENT_IP` and `HTTP_X_FORWARDED_FOR`) to determine the client IP address. These headers can be spoofed by clients if they have direct access to your application.

**This middleware is only safe to use when:**
- Your Rails application is deployed behind Firebase Hosting (or a trusted proxy/CDN)
- Direct access to your application is blocked (e.g., via firewall rules)
- You trust the proxy infrastructure to set these headers correctly

**Do not use this middleware if:**
- Your application is directly accessible from the internet
- You cannot guarantee that requests pass through Firebase Hosting
- You need strict security guarantees about IP address authenticity

For production deployments, ensure your application only accepts traffic through Firebase Hosting and cannot be accessed directly.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'firebase_hosting_client_ip'
```

And then execute:

```bash
bundle install
```

## Usage

The middleware is automatically loaded when Rails is detected. No additional configuration is required.

The middleware is inserted into the Rails middleware stack after `ActionDispatch::RemoteIp`, ensuring proper precedence in the request processing chain.

### Expected Behavior

After the middleware processes a request, `request.remote_ip` will return the normalized client IP address according to the following precedence:

1. `HTTP_FASTLY_CLIENT_IP` header (if present and not empty)
2. Left-most value from `HTTP_X_FORWARDED_FOR` header (if present and not empty)
3. `REMOTE_ADDR` (the direct connection address)

### Example

```ruby
class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
  def index
    # This will return the correct client IP even behind Firebase Hosting
    client_ip = request.remote_ip
    Rails.logger.info "Request from: #{client_ip}"
  end
end
```

### Testing the Middleware

You can verify the middleware is working by checking the `request.remote_ip` value in your controllers or by inspecting the `REMOTE_ADDR` environment variable in your middleware stack.

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and the created tag, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/quintsys/firebase_hosting_client_ip. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [code of conduct](https://github.com/quintsys/firebase_hosting_client_ip/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the FirebaseHostingClientIp project's codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/quintsys/firebase_hosting_client_ip/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Commit message:

docs: add Rails version compatibility requirements
Document supported Rails versions (7, 8, and future versions)
and Ruby version requirement. Clarifies that the gem works
with any Rails version specified in the user's Gemfile.

README.md, after:

# FirebaseHostingClientIp

A Rails middleware gem that normalizes client IP addresses when your Rails application is deployed behind Firebase Hosting.

## Problem

When a Rails application is deployed behind Firebase Hosting, the original client IP address is obscured by proxy layers. Rails' default `ActionDispatch::RemoteIp` middleware may not correctly identify the true client IP due to the specific header precedence used by Firebase Hosting's infrastructure.

This gem provides a middleware that implements a heuristic precedence order specifically designed for Firebase Hosting's proxy chain, ensuring `request.remote_ip` returns the correct client IP address.

## Supported Architecture

This gem is designed for the following architecture:

```
Client → Firebase Hosting → Rails Application
```

Firebase Hosting uses Fastly CDN behind the scenes (this is not a documented feature and is not configurable - all Firebase Hosting users get Fastly CDN automatically). The middleware handles the `HTTP_FASTLY_CLIENT_IP` header that Fastly provides, as well as the `HTTP_X_FORWARDED_FOR` header from the proxy chain.

## Intended Use Cases

This middleware is useful for:

- **Logging**: Accurately log client IP addresses for audit trails and debugging
- **Analytics**: Track user locations and behavior based on correct IP geolocation
- **User Experience**: Personalize content based on user location
- **Security**: Implement IP-based rate limiting or access controls

## Security Disclaimer

**IMPORTANT**: This middleware trusts HTTP headers (`HTTP_FASTLY_CLIENT_IP` and `HTTP_X_FORWARDED_FOR`) to determine the client IP address. These headers can be spoofed by clients if they have direct access to your application.

**This middleware is only safe to use when:**
- Your Rails application is deployed behind Firebase Hosting (or a trusted proxy/CDN)
- Direct access to your application is blocked (e.g., via firewall rules)
- You trust the proxy infrastructure to set these headers correctly

**Do not use this middleware if:**
- Your application is directly accessible from the internet
- You cannot guarantee that requests pass through Firebase Hosting
- You need strict security guarantees about IP address authenticity

For production deployments, ensure your application only accepts traffic through Firebase Hosting and cannot be accessed directly.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'firebase_hosting_client_ip'
```

And then execute:

```bash
bundle install
```

## Requirements

- Ruby >= 3.2.0
- Rails >= 7.0 (Rails 7, Rails 8, and future versions are supported)

The gem automatically works with whatever Rails version is specified in your application's Gemfile.

## Usage

The middleware is automatically loaded when Rails is detected. No additional configuration is required.

The middleware is inserted into the Rails middleware stack after `ActionDispatch::RemoteIp`, ensuring proper precedence in the request processing chain.

### Expected Behavior

After the middleware processes a request, `request.remote_ip` will return the normalized client IP address according to the following precedence:

1. `HTTP_FASTLY_CLIENT_IP` header (if present and not empty)
2. Left-most value from `HTTP_X_FORWARDED_FOR` header (if present and not empty)
3. `REMOTE_ADDR` (the direct connection address)

### Example

```ruby
class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
  def index
    # This will return the correct client IP even behind Firebase Hosting
    client_ip = request.remote_ip
    Rails.logger.info "Request from: #{client_ip}"
  end
end
```

### Testing the Middleware

You can verify the middleware is working by checking the `request.remote_ip` value in your controllers or by inspecting the `REMOTE_ADDR` environment variable in your middleware stack.

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake spec` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and the created tag, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/quintsys/firebase_hosting_client_ip. This project is intended to be a safe, welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to the [code of conduct](https://github.com/quintsys/firebase_hosting_client_ip/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

## Code of Conduct

Everyone interacting in the FirebaseHostingClientIp project's codebases, issue trackers, chat rooms and mailing lists is expected to follow the [code of conduct](https://github.com/quintsys/firebase_hosting_client_ip/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
